articles/nature-of-work.md, before:

--- 
layout: default 
--- 

[](https://www.gamedeveloper.com/programming/john-carmack-encourages-vr-devs-to-embrace-the-grind-)

John Carmack 
* "Embrace the grind...It takes more than just 'be bold'; you have to actually work really hard. You've gotta fill your products with 'give a damn.'"
* "Not many of our applications [in the Oculus store] are going that extra mile where all the really important magic and user value happens."


[Embrace the grind](https://jacobian.org/2021/apr/7/embrace-the-grind/)

> The only “trick” is that this preparation seems so boring, so impossibly tedious, that when we see the effect we can’t imagine that anyone would do something so tedious just for this simple effect.



### Emotions

* "Leadership is a lonely business. You live 24/7 with uncertainty, anxiety, and the fear of personal failure. You make countless decisions, and being wrong about any of them might let down your employees and investors. The stakes, both financial and human, are high. And what adds to the terror is that there is no manual, no how-to guide. Every problem has, at least to some extent, never been seen before. In particular, early-stage enterprises often feel like they're shrouded in a fog of war." Frank Slootman, Amp It Up

Commit message:

add quotes from Aaron Francis on finishing projects

articles/nature-of-work.md, after:

--- 
layout: default 
--- 

### Finishing Projects 

[Finish your projects](https://github.com/readme/guides/finish-your-projects) by Aaron Francis.  

> There's no way around it: Finishing a project takes a certain amount of pure, unpleasant work. The first step is to embrace the fact that it won't be fun all the way through. You must become comfortable with the grind-it-out nature of the last 10% of a project. This is what separates people who finish from people who wish they could. 

> Doing that last bit of work isn’t glamorous, there are no shortcuts, and there are no hacks. There’s only work. But let this be a comfort to you! No one accomplishes anything great without sitting down at their desk every day and fighting for it. 

> Finishing is a skill, and you can hone it.

### Publishing 

[Publishing your work inceases your luck](https://github.com/readme/guides/publishing-your-work)

[](https://www.gamedeveloper.com/programming/john-carmack-encourages-vr-devs-to-embrace-the-grind-)

John Carmack 
* "Embrace the grind...It takes more than just 'be bold'; you have to actually work really hard. You've gotta fill your products with 'give a damn.'"
* "Not many of our applications [in the Oculus store] are going that extra mile where all the really important magic and user value happens."


[Embrace the grind](https://jacobian.org/2021/apr/7/embrace-the-grind/)

> The only “trick” is that this preparation seems so boring, so impossibly tedious, that when we see the effect we can’t imagine that anyone would do something so tedious just for this simple effect.



### Emotions

* "Leadership is a lonely business. You live 24/7 with uncertainty, anxiety, and the fear of personal failure. You make countless decisions, and being wrong about any of them might let down your employees and investors. The stakes, both financial and human, are high. And what adds to the terror is that there is no manual, no how-to guide. Every problem has, at least to some extent, never been seen before. In particular, early-stage enterprises often feel like they're shrouded in a fog of war." Frank Slootman, Amp It Up
